QUALITY ENGINEERING PTE LTD
10 ANG MO KIO STREET 65
#05-13 TECHPOINT,
SINGAPORE 569059
TEL: 6818 8666		FAX: 6818 8667

ATTENTION:		MS. WU JIE

Dear Madam


TEE YIH JIA FOOD HUB (MAIN CONTRACT)
PROPOSED ERECTION OF 9-STOREY INDUSTRIAL FACTORY (TEE YIH JIA FOOD HUB) WITH SINGLE STOREY COLDROOM AND DRY STORE ON LOTS (01555WPT, 01555KPT, 01663LPT, 03911V, 01634CPT, 01631NPT) MK 13 AT SENOKO DRIVE / SENOKO ROAD 

RE:	LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE: SUB-CONTRACT FOR SUPPLY OF LABOUR, SMALL TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT FOR RC STRUCTURAL WORKS TO BUILDING BLOCK AND EXTERNAL WORKS 

1.0	AWARD
We refer to the above captioned and are pleased to confirm that you have been awarded this Sub-Contract subject to the approval of the Architect.

2.0	SUB-CONTRACT SUM
The Sub-Contract Sum shall be at Singapore Dollars: Three Million Six Hundred Forty Five Thousand Four Hundred Twenty Seven and Cents Fifty Only (S$3,645,427.50) which shall be subject to re-measurement in accordance with the attached Sub-Contract Schedule of Rates, which shall remain firm and fixed throughout the Main Contract Period including any extension of time thereafter.
All variation works shall be based on a “back-to-back” condition and the prices shall be mutually agreed and confirmed by us in writing prior to the commencement of the variation works. However, in the event that the variation works are required to proceed first due to its urgency, you shall proceed immediately upon the Main Contractor’s written request pending the valuation of your variation works.
The Sub-Contract Sum shall be deemed to include for all costs and expenses relating to Goods and Services Tax (GST) payable by you on the purchase of the goods and services necessary for execution, completion and maintenance of the works.  Such costs and expenses shall extend to, but not limited to administrative costs, financial charges and any loss of input tax and the like relating to GST payable by you.
GST payable by the Main Contractor is excluded. The Main Contractor shall bear any GST payable under Goods and Services Tax Act (Chapter 117A) in respect of the Contract Sum only.
No adjustment to the Sub-Contract Schedule of Rates shall be allowed for any fluctuations in the cost of labour, materials, equipment and / or services, taxes (except GST), interest, levies, etc. that may be incurred during the original or extended Contract Period.
In the event that there is an extension of time granted to the Main Contractor, you shall not be entitled to claim for your own extra preliminaries due to the prolonged construction period.

3.0	SCOPE OF WORKS
The scope of the Sub-Contract Works shall include the provision of all labour, small construction tools and everything necessary, whether of a temporary or permanent nature, to carry out and complete the RC structural works to factory building block and external works including any other works deemed necessary for the proper execution of this Sub-Contract in accordance with the Conditions of Contract, Specifications and Contract Drawings of the Main Contract and the Main Contractor’s Programme including any revision thereof to the satisfaction and approval of the Architect.
The scope of works / Sub-Contract Sum shall also include but not limited to the followings:-
General for Formwork, Rebars, Concreting and Precast Works
a.	Provision of all the preliminaries, overheads, overtime pay, CPF contribution, Foreign Worker’s Levy, Skill Development Fund, BCA coretrade trainings and etc under the Sub-Contract Works except items otherwise noted to be provided by the Main Contractor as per attached “Appendix 1”.
b.	You shall participate in a handing-over inspection of the completed structure works together with the Main Contractor. All defects and discrepancies shall be highlighted at the inspection. You shall fully responsible to remedy, rectify or making good any of such defects.
c.	You shall check all construction drawings and shop drawings including architectural, structural and M&E drawings and highlight the discrepancy if any, before execution of the works. Failure, you shall bear any cost for abortive works involved.
d.	You shall respond to our Project Director / Project Manager’s instructions to commence work on site or attend to any related matter within 24 hours from the instruction, verbal or written.
e.	You shall apply same unit rate for formwork, rebar and concreting to RC beams and pourstrips, if precast plank is used. Toppings and installation of precast plank shall be price separately.
f.	You shall appoint a competent full time Site Representative who shall act on behalf of your organisation and appoint a permanent member to the EHS (Environment, Health & Safety) Committee. Such representative shall attend the scheduled site meetings, the monthly Safety Committee Meeting, the safety inspection as and when required, failing which a penalty of S$300.00 will be imposed for every absence from the scheduled meetings and the Main Contractor shall reserve the right to deduct such amount from your interim payments.
g.	You shall provide full time rigger and signal man, lifting supervisor for your Sub-Contract Works.
h.	You shall provide a safety supervisor, formwork safety supervisor first aider during the whole period of your Sub-Contract Works in accordance to Ministry of Manpower’s (MOM) safety requirements. 
i.	The Main Contractor will provide Surveyor for setting out of the grid line and elevation level, upon which, you are to have your own competent surveyor for setting out of your Sub-Contract works and ensure the accuracy of the works.
j.	You shall be responsible to check and submit the following quality check record to Main Contractor:-
i)	Before casting
1)	Internal verticality of column and wall
2)	Soffit level of plank / beam and slab
3)	External verticality using laser plumb and any other checks required by Consultant.
ii)	After casting
1)	Slab casting level (one day after slab casting)
2)	Soffit level of plank / beam and slab (within 5 days after dismantling of formwork)
3)	Internal verticality of column and wall (within 5 days after dismantling of formwork) and any other checks required by Consultant.
k.	The Sub-Contractor shall at his own cost, comply with the Main Contractor’s instructions to carry out any overtime or night work whenever necessary, without further claim against the Main Contractor. Work activities that are likely to generate noise that exceed the permissible noise level are not allowed after 10.00pm or at any time imposed by the Authorities on any day. Any penalty from Authorities due to noise generated by your work will be back-charged to you.
l.	You shall co-ordinate with other Sub-Contractors in the interfacing works especially I-beam installer / M&E Sub-Contractor during M&E provision installation and the waterproofing Sub-Contractor. If necessary, including more than one operation of your works in the same locations.
m.	Provision of adequate and approved protection (materials shall be provided by Main Contractor) to your installed works during construction and after installation until handing over to the Main Contractor. E.g. laying of protection to staircase riser with plywood.
n.	Provision of adequate care and precaution to existing works for other trades especially M&E installation, with suitable materials. Any claim by the relevant parties made to the Main Contractor, will be back-charged to you.
o.	The Sub-Contract Works shall include all labour and equipment to transport all materials from storage / ground level to the respective work areas unless otherwise noted in the “Appendix 1”.
p.	You shall submit your material request form 10 days in advance prior to take delivery of materials for your works. The original delivery order with your site representative’s signature shall be returned to our store keeper the next day for recording purposes.
q.	You shall bear the cost of touching up, making good all defects including final finishing works and any other related abortive work caused by your failure to comply fully with construction drawings and specifications. You shall not hack any structure without prior approval and not rectify any honeycombs concrete without prior inspection. You shall provide all materials for repair works and polymer mortar for external wall defect rectification work at no cost to us. You shall conduct structural water-ponding test for all wet areas after concreting and rectify the leakage as per the method statement which was approved by the Consultant.
r.	The Main Contractor shall provide disposal bins at designated area. You shall clear all your materials and debris of each storey and bring down to the disposal bins at ground floor when instructed by the Main-Contractor and thoroughly clean up your work areas upon completion.
s.	You shall assign sufficient supervisors / workers to attend handing over inspection as required by the Main Contractor to the satisfaction of the Architect.
t.	You shall assign at least 3 certified coretrade foremen and 2 certified coretrade supervisor, and to sign the attendance daily.



Concreting
a.	Concreting of all cast in-situ reinforced concrete work.
b.	Concreting of lintels, lintel beams, stiffeners, kerbs, plinths, machine base, concrete blocks, doghouse, nibs, projections, features, ledges, downhang walls, drop panels, gutters, humps, stanchions, pre-formed columns, 100mm high concrete heel stone and works of the similar nature, which may be required to be carried out outside the sequence of the Main Contract work and/or different operations / stages shall be included and priced in accordance with the Schedule of Rate.
c.	Casting of kickers to wall, columns and other vertical structural members.
d.	Taking delivery, hoisting and compacting concrete in positions including preparing surfaces of concrete to receive fresh concrete.
e.	Tamping and/or vibration of concrete to give adequate compaction according to the specifications.
f.	Preparing and providing construction joints including roughening of edges, the Sub-Contractor shall be responsible for the maintenance of the construction joints to the satisfaction of the Architect and/or the Main Contractor. The Sub-Contractor shall bear all costs for any repair works required.
g.	Pour joints, forming and cutting rebates, grooves, chases, mortices, holes, openings not exceeding 0.10m2 and any other sundry items of the like nature.
h.	Provide labour to apply curing compound on casted concrete.
i.	Working in between and around reinforcement bars.
j.	Trimming, levelling and compacting excavated surfaces to the required level to receive lean concrete/concrete.
k.	Laying on any types of sub-base, cleaning and preparing surfaces to receive screed, paving rendering, etc.
l.	Preparing of surfaces including levelling to receive floor hardener, whether sprinkled or brushed on, and other finishes. Power floating shall be carried out by others.
m.	Trowel top of concrete surface to requires levels/slopes/falls.
n.	Laying in bays including all labour associated with projecting rebars and placing of materials for construction joint.
o.	Installation, dismantling and cleaning of concrete buckets and pump pipes (vertical and horizontal) after each operation.
p.	Covering of trench of lift pit / consumer switch room with plywood and concrete.
q.	Provide all necessary equipment and tools including vibrators, wheel barrows and concrete pails for the Sub-Contractor’s operation. Fuel shall be supplied by Main Contractor.
r.	Provide labour and materials to remove and touch up all blisters, honeycombs, cracks, etc, with approved construction grout (material by Main-Contractor).
s.	Removal of remaining concrete by washing with water to a designated location after each operation.
t.	Undertake that the wastage of concrete would not exceed 5% and lean concrete would not exceed 15% of the measured quantities, the Sub-Contractor shall bear the cost for any wastage in excess of the agreed percentage.
u.	Submit a breakdown of your concrete work done with sufficient drawings together with your progress claim to the Main Contractor for the assessment of your claim.
v.	Full attendance of competent foreman and workmen during inspection of formwork and/or concreting as instructed by the Main Contractor.
w.	Provide a competent supervisor on standby for night casting.
x.	All other items not specifically mentioned herein but necessary for the due and proper execution and completion of the work.
y.	Upon completion of Sub-Contract works, Sub-Contractor is to clean up the concrete surface free from debris, nails, formworks and hand over to Main Contractor.

Rebars / Steel Welded Mesh
a.	All cleaning, placing and tying of rebars and welded mesh including the provision of all necessary tying wire, concrete cover support, bar chair, temporary fixing and/or supports for the Sub-Contract Works. Bent bar chair for basement slab using rebar shall be provided by Main Contractor.
b.	Fixing, straightening and adjustment of starter bars at any location especially for construction joint areas for rebars and welded mesh including removal of box-up materials, especially at lift shaft area by using jump form method.
c.	Fixing of reinforcement bar and welded mesh, fixing for temporary openings/enclosures and its subsequent casting back.
d.	Fixing of starter bars, pull-out starter bars, and/or other starter bar system for slabs & beams are not considered as measurable items. They shall not be treated as construction wastage also.
e.	Fixing of rebars to stiffeners, kerbs, plinths, machine base, concrete blocks, doghouse, nibs, projections, features, ledges, downhang walls, drop panels, gutters, humps, stanchions and works of the similar nature shall be included.
f.	Fixing of trimmer bars or cutting of rebars, if so required, around all openings, M&E services/ducts, pipe sleeves, cast-in plates and other works of the similar nature.
g.	Cleaning starter bars, lapping and other associated works at construction joint; lapping of rebar shall not be included in the measurement of rebar for slabs & beams. They shall not be treated as construction wastage also.
h.	Taking delivery, unloading and storing of straight and/or fabricated materials.
i.	Erection of scaffolding for assembling of reinforcement bars and welded mesh.
j.	Labour for transportation and shifting of all straight and/or fabricated materials, equipment, tools, etc both horizontally and vertically.
k.	Erection, relocation and maintenance of fabrication yards and working tables. The Main Contractor shall provide the Sub-Contractor with one set of bar cutting machine, one set of bending machine and fuel for the machines.
l.	Prepare bar bending schedule (BBS) to show the work that have been completed and attach these with your progress claim to submit to the Main Contractor for assessment of your claim.
m.	The Sub-Contractor undertakes that the wastage for rebar would not exceed 3% for cut & bend and 5% for straight bar. Any wastage in excess shall be borne by the Sub-Contractor.
n.	You shall record down any additional rebar / wire mesh required by Consultant with their endorsement.
o.	Steel welded mesh to be measured net, no allowance for lap.
p.	Full attendance of competent workmen during concreting to take instructions from the Main Contractor.
q.	Provide all necessary tools and power tools including fixing pins.
r.	Erection of scaffolding for assembling of reinforcement bars and welded mesh and erection of accessway for Resident Engineer/RTO inspection.
s.	All other items not specifically mentioned herein but necessary for the due and proper execution and completion of the work.

Formwork
a.	The Sub-Contract works shall include the provision of labour, small construction tools, and equipments to carry out and complete all the formwork for RC structural works including any other works deemed necessary for the proper execution of this Sub-Contract in accordance with the Conditions of Contract and Specifications of the Main Contract.
b.	Form door openings, lift openings, boxing-up for M&E services, pouring strips and the like nature in walls, core walls and slabs.
c.	Kickers to walls, columns and other vertical structural members.
d.	Expanded metal in pour strip, stop end and construction joints shall be provided by Main Contractor and installed by the Sub-Contractor.
e.	Form construction joints including related work to receive starter bars and/or waterstops and/or hyribs (materials provided by Main Contractor).
f.	All notching, allowance for overlaps and passing at angles, battens, strutting, bolting, wedging, easing, forming splay edges, fillers, narrow edges and arises including drilling holes for starter bars, striking and removal.
g.	All construction joints, rebates, corner angle guards, holes for starter bars and all incidental works for the casting of concrete. Hack and roughen the construction joints after casting of concrete.
h.	Filling of gaps to prevent concrete leakage. The Sub-Contractor shall be responsible for all cleaning in the event of any leakage and rectification of formwork.
i.	Patching up of indentations after the removal of form ties. Patching up material to be supplied by the Main Contractor. 
j.	Polyfoam or other materials for forming of openings, if required, shall be supplied by the Main Contractor and installed by Sub-Contractor without charges.
k.	Erect working platforms, railings, toe-boards, temporary stairs, safety device etc. (materials supplied by the Main Contractor) for inspection and usage of the same by other sub-contractors for reinforcement bars, concreting, etc.
l.	All machineries, equipment and special tool for fixing and dismantling of formwork.
m.	Hoisting and shifting both horizontally and vertically of the materials, associated equipment and accessories and stack the same in a proper manner at locations designated by the Main Contractor upon completion of the work.
n.	Full attendance of competent supervisor(s) and standby adequate carpenters during inspection of formwork and concreting as instructed by the Main Contractor.
o.	Cleaning of all formworks, application of mould oil and other preparatory works to be ready for concreting.
p.	The marking of the base grid lines and base level shall be given by the Main Contractor. Detail setting out shall be done by the Sub-Contractor.
q.	Formwork to construction joints (non-measurable) including preparation works for fixing starter bars such as construction joints and its subsequent removal.
r.	Re-propping of casted areas after dismantling of formwork, as and when directed by the Main Contractor.
s.	Fixing and removal of formwork for kickers to columns, walls and other vertical structural members.
t.	You shall observe strictly the schedules for striking formworks in the specification or safe work procedure, failing which a penalty of S$1,000.00 will be imposed to you.
u.	All other items not specifically mentioned herein but necessary for the due and proper execution and completion of the work.
v.	Upon completion of Sub-Contract works, the Sub-Contractor is to clean and tidy up the materials such as metalform, u-clips, plywood, scaffold frames and hand over to the Main Contractor.
w.	Undertake that the wastage of metalform and U-clip would not exceed 5% and 10% respectively of the measured quantities, the Sub-Contractor shall bear the cost for any wastage in excess of the agreed percentage.
x.	Submit a breakdown of your formwork work done together with your progress claim to the Main Contractor for the assessment of your claim.
y.	Erect temporary working platform and barricade over construction joint due to the sequence of construction.
z.	Plywood and timber materials shall be recycled for at least five (5) times.
aa.	Formwork for stiffeners, kerbs plinths, machine base, doghouse, nibs, projections, features, ledge, downhung, walls, drops, gutters, humps and the works of similar nature shall be included and to be measured in accordance with the Schedule of Rate.

Installation of Precast Components
a.	The Sub-Contract Works for precast components shall include labour for the checking of precast quality, verticality, installation and grouting of precast components. Grouting material shall be provided by Main Contractor.
b.	Unloading of precast component to the stock stand provided on site.

SUBMISSIONS
a.	You shall submit the following upon signing of the Sub-Contract document:-
(i)	Site Organisation Chart
(ii)	Detailed Programme of Sub-Contract Works in accordance to the latest Main Contractor’s Master Programme
(iii)	Your list of equipment and material used on site.
b.	You shall submit method statement for each trade for approval before commencement of works. Upon approval of the method statement, you shall proceed with the trade demo on site following strictly to the approved method statement for inspection and comments prior to proceeding with the actual works for each trade.
c.	You shall submit work statements for Work Safety Procedure, Risks Management and WSHA including any other documents for our review before commencement of site works. You shall ensure all your site personnel and site works comply fully with our in house EHSS Rules and Regulations including Authorities / Statutory legislation of MOM, MOH, EMA, SCDF, NEA, etc. Failing which, Main Contractor reserves the right to impose penalties for non-compliances and deduct the same from your interim payment.

QUALITY CONTROL
a.	You shall comply within your scope of works at no cost to the proposed method of construction to meet the CONQUAS target as required in the Main Contract and when instructed by the Main Contractor.
b.	You shall be responsible for all inspections, quality control as per Main Contract requirements in respect to your works.
c.	You shall attend fully to CONQUAS Assessment and comply fully with the Main Contractor’s directions on QAQC matters.
d.	The Structural Quality Standard and Workmanship under your Sub-Contract Works shall be as follows:-
i)	Ceiling soffit slant ≤ 3mm within the room
ii)	Beam soffit slant ≤ 3mm/1.2m or 10mm
iii)	Verticality plumb tolerance ≤ 3mm /1.0 or 10mm
iv)	Wall or Beam corners ≤ 4mm per 300mm
v)	Deviation from intended slab top level (Slab casted surface):10mm
You shall comply strictly to above Structural Quality Standard. Failing to do so, you shall bear the cost of labour and materials (e.g. prepacked materials) for touching up, making good all defects including final finishing works. A sum of money shall be retained and released to you upon your completion of rectification works to the satisfaction of Architect.


PROVISION BY MAIN CONTRACTOR
a.	Passenger cum material hoist for your Sub-Contract Works will be provided by the Main Contractor. You shall provide workers to transport all materials and tools to the execution of the works to the working areas. You shall assign your workers to attend the lesson on the operation of passenger hoist conducted by our supplier and your responsibility to assign your own worker to operate the hoist after 7.00pm.
b.	The Main Contractor will only provide climbing access platform with netting and toe board for external building perimeter, supply of angle brackets and timber plank inside lift shafts for the purpose of safety access in accordance with MOM requirement. You shall deploy your workers to lift the climbing access platform with the assistance of tower crane, install and dismantle of brackets and timber plank for lift shaft opening including patching up holes after dismantling. You shall also be responsible for installation of barricade to all open sides of the building at construction level until handed over to Main Contractor including cover up all floor opening and cleaning of peripheral shelter.
c.	Provision and erection of scaffolding, access, props, supports, working platform complete with barricade or any temporary works below 4.0m high required by your Sub-Contract Works shall be at your own cost. The Main contractor shall provide the scaffold material. You shall return all the scaffold material to us upon completion of your Sub-contract works.
d.	The Main Contractor will provide only temporary power and utility points and lighting to access ways. You shall tapped off from such points and provide all necessary power points, spotlights and localized lighting for your Sub-Contract Works including extension for water hose and cable.
e.	The Main Contractor will provide temporary DB at alternate floors.
f.	Adequate storage space / store will be provided to you on site. However, Main Contractor is not responsible for the loss or damage of the material or equipment kept in the storage space / store.

4.0	SUB-CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
The Sub-Contract documents shall comprise the following:
a.	This Letter of Acceptance, ref: CC/TYJ/SC/19.020 dated 8 June 2019
b.	Sub-Contract Schedule of Rates
c.	Main Contract Specifications
d.	Civil and Structural Design Brief
e.	Main Contract Drawings
This Letter of Acceptance shall form part of the Sub-Contract together with the documents listed above. In the event of discrepancy between the documents, the succeeding documents shall override the one preceding.
This Letter of Acceptance, however, shall take precedence over any document listed above in case of discrepancies, if any.

5.0	CONDITIONS OF SUB-CONTRACT 
Unless otherwise expressly stated herein, the Conditions of this Sub-Contract shall comply fully with all the terms and conditions as set out in the Main Contract (S.I.A. Articles and Conditions of Building Contract, Lump Sum Contract, 9th Edition - Reprint August 2011), a copy of which is available for your inspection upon request. Your attention is also drawn to the following stipulations:

5.1	TERMS OF PAYMENT

5.1.1	PAYMENT CLAIMS
All progress payment applications shall be considered as Payment claims under the Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Act (Cap. 30B) (the Act).
A Payment Claim:-
a)	Shall be based on work carried out during the month,
b)	Shall be served on the last day of the month,
c)	Shall be served in person on the Main Contractor’s Project Director/ Senior Project Manager/ Project Manager of the construction project to which this Sub-Contract relates, or any such other person as shall be named in these conditions or nominated in writing by the Main Contractor,
d)	In the event that the Project Director/ Senior Project Manager/ Project Manager or such other named or nominated person is on leave and/or otherwise unavailable, the payment claim shall be served on the quantity surveyor on site.
e)	Shall comply with the Requirements and Regulations of the Act,
f)	To assist the Main Contractor in preparing its claims under the Main Contract, the Sub-Contractor shall provide to the Main Contractor’s site quantity surveyor on the last day of each month, a statement for the work carried out during that month. This statement shall not constitute a Payment Claim under the Act.
g)	In the event that the Sub-Contractor fails to submit his statement under 5.1.1.f) above, the Main Contractor shall not be responsible for its failure to include the Sub-Contractor’s claim in the Main Contractor’s Payment Claim under the Main Contract.

5.1.2	PAYMENT RESPONSES
A Payment Response:-
a)	Shall be served on the Sub-Contractor twenty-one (21) calendar days after the receipt of the Payment Claim,
b)	Shall state the amount that the Main Contractor intends to pay to the Sub-Contractor in relation to the Payment Claim,
c)	Shall state the reasons if the amount in the Payment Response is less than the corresponding amount in the Payment Claim.
d)	Shall comply with the Requirements and Regulations of the Act.

5.1.3	DUE DATE FOR PAYMENT
The Sub-Contractor shall be entitled to submit his invoice twenty one (21) calendar days after the Payment Claim is submitted, and the progress payment shall become due nine (9) days after the submission of his invoice (i.e. thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the Payment Claim). All invoices shall be hand delivered to the Main Contractor’s Accounts Department in the Head Office for the receipt to be acknowledged.

5.1.4	DISPUTE SETTLEMENT PERIOD
In the event that the Sub-Contractor finds the Payment Response unsatisfactory or the Main Contractor neglects to issue a Payment Response by the due date, the Sub-Contractor shall inform the Main Contractor in writing of his dissatisfaction and engage the Main Contractor in discussions with a view to settling the dispute amicably. The period of seven (7) days commencing immediately after the date by which the Payment Response was due constitutes the Dispute Settlement Period.

5.1.5	INTEREST
The interest payable on the unpaid amount of a progress payment that has become due and payable shall be at the rate of 1% per annum.

5.2	RETENTION
10% for the work done.

5.3	LIMIT OF RETENTION
5% of the Sub-Contract Sum. (excluding amount retained for salary arrears)

5.4	RETENTION OF A PROVISIONAL AMOUNT TO PAY WORKER’S SALARY ARREARS OF UP TO ONE MONTH.
In the event if the Main Contractor becomes aware of any salary arrears for the workers engaged by the Sub-Contractor, the Main Contractor shall be entitled to retain a provisional amount of up to one month for each worker’s salary from the progress claims.

5.5	MAINTENANCE PERIOD 
Eighteen (18) months from the date of issuance of the Handing Over Certificate for the whole works by the Architect, or on the receipt of the Maintenance Certificate from the Architect, whichever is later.

5.6	RELEASE OF RETENTION
Upon receipt of the Handing Over Certificate, half of the retention shall be released. The balance 2.5% shall be released after the expiry of the Maintenance Period or making good of all defects or upon the receipt of the Maintenance Certificate from the Architect or receipt of the retention from the Employer, whichever is the latest.

5.7	MAIN CONTRACTOR’S RIGHT TO DEDUCTION OR SET-OFF
The Main Contractor shall, not-withstanding anything in the Sub-Contract, be entitled to deduct from or set off against any money due from the Main Contractor to the Sub-Contractor under the Sub-Contract, any sum or sums which the Sub-Contractor is or may be liable to pay the Main Contractor under any other sub-contract with the Main Contractor.

5.8       PERFORMANCE BOND (NOT USED)

5.9	PROGRAMME OF WORK
The programme for the Sub-Contract works shall be in accordance with the time schedule as set out in our programme. You are required to liaise very closely with our Project Director / Manager regarding the schedule of work.
The Date of Commencement for your works shall be in accordance with our Master Programme.
The Dates of Commencement and Completion of the Main Contract are as follows: -
Date of Commencement			           :	      23 April 2019
Date for Completion of the Whole of Works	:	22 October 2020 or such other extended completion date
The Master Programme or agreed Site Schedule is subject to revision. The Sub-Contractor shall work overtime, if necessary, to meet the schedule without further claim against the Main Contractor.

5.10	DUE DILIGENCE BY SUB-CONTRACTOR
You are to take note that time is of the essence and therefore you shall proceed with your works diligently and with due expedition at all times until completion.

5.11	TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DELAYS OF THE SUB-CONTRACT WORKS AND TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE
In the event of delays to your works which in turn result in serious delays to the Main Contract works, we shall issue you with a Notice of Delay instructing you to take all necessary measures to overcome the delay. In the event that effective action is not taken within one (1) week of such notice, we shall be at liberty, without prejudice to any of our other rights under the Sub-Contract, to take over part or all of the Works entrusted to you under the Sub-Contract until such time as you are able to proceed with your works in accordance to our programme. In the event that two (2) week later after our issuance of the Notice of Delay you are still unable to satisfactorily pull back or mitigate the delay, then we shall have the right to terminate the Sub-Contract. All costs and damages including liquidated damages arising from the above shall be charged to your account.
In the event if you shall terminate the Sub-Contract for convenience, you shall be fully responsible for all loss, damages, costs, including any cost increase incurred by us in engaging third party/parties to take over the Works under the Sub-Contract and Liquidated Damages arising as the result of your termination.

5.12	DAMAGES FOR DELAY
In the event of any delays due to your default, we are entitled to claim and / or recover as debt from you, for all losses, damages and expenses (including but not limited to Liquidated Damages which may be imposed on the Main Contractor by the Employer) caused by and / or contributed to, and / or arising from the delay in the Sub-Contract works.
In clarification of this clause the following shall apply:-
a.	The Liquidated Damages under the Main Contract amount to:-
(i)	First 30 days: $32,800.00 per calendar day
(ii)	31 days to 180 days: $49,200.00 per calendar day
(iii)	181 days and thereafter: $100,000.00 per calendar day
for Main Contract Works. You shall only be liable for the full amount in the event that your delays have solely contributed to the project delay. In cases your delay is concurrent with delays by third parties or the Main Contractor, then Liquidated Damages will be apportioned fairly between the parties causing delay.
b.	Adequate notice of delay shall be given by Main Contractor as soon as it is apparent that your works are or are likely to be in delay so as to give you an opportunity to mitigate or pull back the delay.
Under all circumstances, you must follow Main Contract Programme or any revision thereto. You are to highlight to the Main Contractor any matters that could delay the works with a view to overcoming such problems and avoid delay.

5.13	ORDERING MATERIALS / EQUIPMENT
You are to immediately place your orders for the materials and equipments upon approval of your design, shop drawings, method statement, test reports and sample submission.

5.14	INSURANCE
1)	The Main Contractor has taken up insurance policies for Contractor’s All Risks (which excludes all plant, machinery and equipment of the Sub-Contractor) and Work Injury Compensation for the construction project. A copy of the said insurance is available for inspection at the Main Contractor’s office by prior appointment.
2)	Notwithstanding Clause (1) above, the Sub-Contractor shall at its own costs separately secure and have in place a policy of insurance under the Work Injury Compensation Act (Cap 354) for all its workmen or employees for the duration of the Sub-Contract Works, including and up to expiry of the Defects Liability Period. Such policy shall be submitted to the Main Contractor before commencement of the Sub-Contract Works.
3)	The Sub-Contractor agrees and undertakes that all claims for work related injuries under the Sub-Contract by its workmen or employees, or the workmen or employees of its sub-contractor of any tier shall strictly be claimed against the Work Injury Compensation insurance policy of the Sub-Contractor only. The Sub-Contractor shall not make any claim against the Work Injury Compensation insurance policy of the Main Contractor.
4)	The Sub-Contractor shall indemnify and keep harmless the Main Contractor against all loss, damage, compensation and against all claims, legal proceedings, costs and expenses whatsoever for any work injury claims under the Sub-Contract lodged or filed against the Main Contractor by any workmen or employees of the Sub-Contractor, or the workmen or employees of its sub-contractor of any tier by reason of any omission, default or negligence of the Sub-Contractor. 
5)	Without prejudice to the above provisions, the Sub-Contractor shall take up such other additional insurance coverage in respect of all other risks and liabilities arising from the performance of the Sub-Contract works, including but not limited to any exclusion or excesses payable, at its own expense.

5.15	WORK INJURY MATTERS
1)	If a notice of accident is filed with the Commissioner For Labour in respect of death or personal injury suffered by any of the Sub-Contractor’s workmen or employees or any workmen or employees of its sub-contractor of any tier arising from or in connection with the performance of the Sub-Contract works which death or injury is caused or contributed by the negligence or default of the Sub-Contractor or the failure by the Sub-Contractor to comply with any workplace safety and health rules, regulations, laws and/or the Sub-Contract obligations, the Sub-Contractor shall be liable to pay to the Main Contractor a sum of between $10,000.00 and $25,000.00 for every notice of accident filed in respect of each workplace safety and health violation by the Sub-Contractor. The final sum payable by the Sub-Contractor shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Main Contractor depending on the severity and consequences of the violations which sum shall be deducted from the interim progress payments payable by the Main Contractor to the Sub-Contractor.
2)	If the Sub-Contractor fails or neglects to give written notice of accident of its workmen or employees, or any workmen or employees of its sub-contractor of any tier to the Main Contractor promptly within the time and in the manner as prescribed by the Workmen Injury Compensation Regulations for any reason whatsoever, the Sub-Contractor shall fully indemnify and keep the Main Contractor harmless against any claims or legal proceedings by the Sub-Contractor’s workmen or employees, or the workmen or employees of its sub-contractor of any tier in the event that the Work Injury Compensation insurer of the Main Contractor repudiates liability under the relevant policy.

5.16	SITE ENTRY/ ACCESS
You shall be required to liaise with our Project Director / Manager for entry or access to the site. You shall response to our Project Director / Manager’s instruction to commence work on site within 24 hours from the instruction, verbal or written.
5.17	SITE STAFF
You shall appoint a key representative with delegated authority to commit to the Main Contractor and will be responsible for the proper execution/supervision of the Sub-Contract Works. Upon approval of your proposed site staff, you shall not be allowed to make any changes without the Main Contractor’s written approval.

5.18	SITE MEETINGS AND SAFETY MEETINGS
Regular site meetings and safety meetings will be held in the site office for the purpose of monitoring and co-ordination of the various Sub-Contract works. If required, you shall be represented by a senior member who is well versed with the Sub-Contract and who can make decisions on behalf of your organization. Attendance is compulsory and absence is subject to the rules and regulation of the respective trades disciplines stipulated from time to time.

5.19	DESIGN, SHOP DRAWINGS, SAMPLES, METHOD STATEMENT AND ALL SUBMITTALS
1)	The Sub-Contract Works to be carried out shall conform to the approved design, specifications, shop drawings, samples and method statement submitted by you in terms of quality, finishing and workmanship and shall be subject to final approval by the Architect.
Non compliance with specifications and disapproval of your design, shop-drawings and method statements by the Architect may result in the Main Contractor’s withdrawal of this Sub-Contract without any compensation.
2)	You shall comply fully with all the required submittals under this Sub-Contract.

6.0	COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATION, DRAWINGS AND CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
Notwithstanding any information and technical particulars submitted, all works carried out shall comply with the specification and drawings unless otherwise agreed to by the Architect. You shall be held fully responsible for any quality issues and/or problems of the works arising during the Contract and Maintenance Period.

7.0	LAWS AND REGULATIONS
a)	This Sub-Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance to the Laws of the Republic of Singapore.
b)	You shall comply with all applicable laws, statutes, rules, regulations, guidelines, orders, by-laws and codes of practice (whether relating to the employment of foreign workers, immigration, safety or otherwise and whether promulgated by the Ministry of Manpower, Housing & Development Board, Building Control Authority, Urban Redevelopment Authority, Land Transport Authority, Pollution Control Department or any other relevant Statutory Board or Authority). If you fail to do so, we shall issue a notice requiring you to rectify the breach within one week. In the event that you fail to rectify the breach after one week from the date of the notice, we shall have the right, without prejudice to any of our other rights under the Sub-Contract, to terminate this Sub-Contract with us.

8.0	EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN MANPOWER ACT (CAP 91A)/ IMMIGRATION ACT (CAP 133)
You are to provide the Main Contractor with an Undertaking Letter that you must not employ any illegal workers on this project as per the attached format, within two (02) weeks from the date of this Letter of Acceptance.
We shall hold you fully responsible if you have committed an offence of employing illegal workers on site. In the event that you are found to employ illegal workers, we shall withhold all monies due to you and all fines that will eventually be imposed shall be recovered from you immediately.
You shall submit with every progress payment claim, an up-dated name list of workers employed by you for this project failing which your claim may not be entertained.

9.0	WORKERS’ ACCOMMODATION
Due to Client’s site restriction requirement, the Sub-Contractor shall provide their own workers’ quarters outside the Site at their own cost.

10.0	HOUSEKEEPING / CLEARING RUBBISH
You shall be required to keep your work areas clean and tidy and dispose of your rubbish regularly in chutes and metal bins provided for the purpose and as instructed by our site management. In the event that you do not do so, we shall carry out this work on your behalf without further notice and all costs and expenses shall be back-charged to you.

11.0	ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH & SAFETY ON SITE
1)	The Sub-Contractor shall provide adequate training and proper supervision of all its workmen or employees and all workmen or employees of its sub-sub-contractors to ensure that they perform the Sub-Contract works in a safe and proper manner on site in full compliance with all the site safety rules, regulations and laws prescribed under the Workplace Safety & Health Act (Cap 354A).
2)	The Sub-Contractor shall fully comply with and strictly adhere to all the approved Codes of Practice as set out in Schedule to the Workplace Safety And Health (Approved Codes of Practice) Notification 2012 and such other amendments thereto, if any.
3)	The Sub-Contractor shall perform the necessary risk assessments preparation, analysis and review process in relation to the Sub-Contract Works.
4)	The Sub-Contractor shall submit a Risk Assessment and Safety Statement for safe work procedures to the Main Contractor before the commencement of the Sub-Contract works. A sample of the Risk Assessment Form is attached herewith for reference. The Sub-Contractor shall remain fully responsible for the adequacy of its risk assessment and safety work procedures submitted to the Main Contractor.
5)	The Sub-Contractor shall ensure that all its workmen or employees carry with them the SOC passes issued by Ministry of Manpower (MOM) at all times while working on the site.
6)	The Sub-Contractor undertakes to comply strictly with all the environmental, health and safety (“EHS”) Rules as per attached.
7)	The Sub-Contractor agrees and accepts that the Main Contractor shall be entitled to deduct such sums from the progress payments due to the Sub-Contractor as stated in the list of EHS Rules attached for every neglect or default by the Sub-Contractor in complying with the EHS Rules. This is without prejudice to all other rights that the Main Contractor may have against the Sub-Contract under this Sub-Contract or under the general law arising from the EHS violation(s) committed by the Sub-Contractor.

12.0	MINIMUM BIZSAFE CERTIFICATION
1)	The Sub-Contractor is required to attain at least BizSafe Level 3 certification issued by the Workplace Safety And Health Council.
2)	If the Sub-Contractor has yet to attain BizSafe Level 3 certification as at the date of this Sub-Contract, the Sub-Contractor undertakes to exercise all due diligence to attain at least BizSafe Level 3 certification within one (1) year from the date of this Sub-Contract failing which the Main Contractor shall retain a sum of S$2,000.00 from the progress payment due to the Sub-Contractor until such time the Sub-Contractor has attained the BizSafe Level 3 certification.
3)	Should the Sub-Contractor fail to attain the BizSafe Level 3 certification upon the issuance of the certificate of completion for the project relating to the Sub-Contract, the retained sum shall be forfeited by the Main Contractor.
13.0	MAN YEAR ENTITLEMENT
Due to site constraints, the Sub-Contractor shall provide their own workers’ quarter outside the site at their own cost.
Manyear entitlement shall be allocated to the Sub-Contractor progressively based on S$120,000.00 per MYE. MYE application shall be after three (3) months from commencement of works or when the value of the Sub-Contract work done is more than S$120,000.00, whichever is later.
The Sub-Contactor shall provide a Security Deposit in the form of a Banker’s Guarantee / Insurance Bond from a Bank / Insurance company approved by the Main Contractor, in an approved format as per attached specimen for a sum of $3,000.00 per man-year entitlement assigned. In the event that the Sub-Contractor fails to provide the Main Contractor the aforesaid Security Deposit, then an equivalent amount shall be deducted from the Sub-Contractor’s progress payment/s and will be valid up to the end of the employment of the foreign workers.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Sub-Contractor shall provide such Banker’s Guarantee / Insurance Bond in their own name and shall not be allowed to assign such obligation to apply and provide same to their own sub-contractor(s).

14.0	CONSTRUCTION QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM (CONQUAS) 
The Sub-Contractor is required to work towards attaining high standards of work to reach the targeted score of 98 points under CONQUAS 21. The deduction threshold score for Structural Works shall be 98 points. In the event that the score achieved is below 98 points due to the fault of the Sub-Contract works, a penalty of S$36,454.00 for each point score below 98 points shall be recovered from you, subject to a maximum deduction of S$364,540.00.

15.0	INDEMNITY
a)	The Sub-Contractor shall be liable for, and shall indemnify the Main Contractor against, any expense (including legal costs on an indemnity basis), liability, loss, claim, penalty, fine or proceedings whatsoever arising under any law, statute, rule, regulation, guideline, order, by-law or code of practices (whether relating to the employment of foreign workers, immigration, safety or otherwise and whether promulgated by the Ministry of Manpower, Building Control Authority, Urban Redevelopment Authority, Pollution Control Department or any other relevant statutory board or authority, or any developer or any of the Main Contractor’s contracting party pursuant to the relevant contract) incurred or suffered by the Main Contractor and to the extent that the same is due to any act or neglect, breach of duty, omission or default of the Sub-Contractor or any person for whom the Sub-Contractor is responsible in the course of carrying out the Sub-Contract works.
b)	For the avoidance of doubt, the aforesaid indemnity shall cover losses and damages suffered or incurred by the Main Contractor as a result of being debarred by the Ministry of Manpower, Housing Development Board, or any other relevant statutory board or authority, any developer or any of the Main Contractor’s contracting party pursuant to the relevant contract from:-
i)	tendering for future projects; and/or
ii)	employing foreign workers; and/or
iii)	engaging in any other activity which the Main Contractor would have been entitled to if due compliance of all applicable laws, statutes, rules, regulations, guidelines, orders, by-laws and codes of practices had been observed by the Sub-Contractor.
c)	The Sub-Contractor shall be liable to the full extent of such loss and damages suffered or incurred and substantiated by the Main Contractor as a result of the Sub-Contractor’s non-compliance and the Main Contractor shall be entitled to the rights and remedies which it is entitled to due to the Sub-Contractor’s breach as aforesaid.
d)	If any provision herein is held by any court or other competent authority to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision and the remaining provisions herein.

16.0	ISO 9000
As an ISO 9001 Quality Management System is being implemented in our company, you are required to comply with the instruction of our Project Manager and give full co-operation to him regarding the ISO 9001 system implementation. Failure to do so may render you liable for the penalty and consequences endorsed by our Project/Office Management.

17.0	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
Settlement of disputes shall be in accordance with the provisions as below:

17.1	INITIAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION / MEDIATION
If a dispute arises between the parties under, out of or in connection with this Sub-Contract or under or out of or in connection with the Sub-Contract Works, the parties shall endeavour to resolve the disputes through negotiations. If negotiations fail, the parties shall refer the dispute to mediation at the Singapore Mediation Centre in accordance to the Mediation Rules for the time being in force. For the avoidance of doubt, prior reference of the dispute to mediation under this clause shall not be a condition precedent for its reference to arbitration by either party nor shall it affect either party’s right to refer the dispute to arbitration under clause 17.2 below.

17.2	ARBITRATION
(1)	In the event of any dispute between the parties in connection with or arising out of this Sub-Contract or the Sub-Contract Works, including any dispute as to the existence, validity or termination of this Sub-Contract, the parties shall refer the dispute to arbitration by an arbitrator to be agreed between the parties within 14 days failing which, to an arbitor to be appointed as arbitrator by the Chairman or Vice Chairman for the time being of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre upon the application by either party. The place of the arbitration shall be Singapore and the arbitration shall be governed by the Arbitration Act (Cap.10) as may be amended from time to time.
b)	The Sub-Contractor shall agree, if required by the Main Contractor in writing, to have any arbitration proceedings initiated pursuant to this Sub-Contract consolidated and/or heard together with any other arbitration proceedings involving the Main Contractor and/or to have these arbitration proceedings heard concurrently with any other arbitration proceedings involving the Main Contractor and/or any arbitration proceedings between the Employer and the Main Contractor. For the avoidance of doubt, this clause shall serve as a consent on the part of the Sub-Contractor to confer power on any arbitral tribunal conducting proceedings involving the Architect and/or the Employer to order consolidation of arbitration proceedings or concurrent proceedings within the meaning of section 26 Arbitration Act (Cap.10).

18.0	FINANCIAL ASSIGNMENT
The Sub-Contractor shall not assign the right to receive monies due under the Sub-Contract or any part thereof to any person without our prior written consent and no such assignment without consent, whether voluntary or otherwise, shall bind us.

19.0	CONTRACTS (RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES) ACT (CAP 53B)
This Sub-Contract does not create or purport to create any right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act (Cap 53B) or any subsequent amendment thereto, which is enforceable by any person or party who or which is not a party to this Sub-Contract. Any person or party who or which is not a party to this Sub-Contract shall have no right under such Act or subsequent amendment thereto, to enforce any of the terms and conditions therein.

20.0	SUBLETTING
The subletting of any of your works shall be subjected to approval by us in writing after your submission of the details of the proposed sub-contractor.  Your sub-contractor, if approved, shall be engaged on the condition that any further subletting shall be subject to similar approval by us in writing. Excessive subletting will not be permitted.  
The Architect shall also have the power to disapprove any subletting or expel any disapproved sub-contractors from site.
























Two copies of this letter are enclosed herewith. Kindly return the original copy duly signed and witnessed where indicated and retain the other copy for your own record. This Letter of Acceptance together with the Documents listed as Sub-Contract documents shall constitute a legal and binding contract between us.


Yours faithfully,
CHINA CONSTRUCTION (SOUTH PACIFIC) DEVELOPMENT CO. PTE LTD



QIAN LIANG ZHONG
MANAGING DIRECTOR


Attached:
a.	Sub-Contract Schedule of Rates
b.	Appendix 1
c.	Main Contract Specifications 
d.	Civil and Structural Design Brief
e.	Main Contract Drawing (to be given by site)
f.	Specimen of Security Deposit for Man-Year Entitlement
g.	Risk Assessment Form 
h.	Letter of Undertaking for Restriction of Employment of Foreign Workers.
i.	EHSS Rules & Regulations   
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

The undersigned acknowledge receipt of the above letter (Ref: CC/TYJ/SC/19.020 dated 8 June 2019), a copy of which has been retained and hereby confirms that the terms and conditions herein are accepted and agreed to.

Sub-Contractor						Witness of Sub-Contractor





...…………………………………			………………………………………
Signature						Signature





...…………………………………			………………………………………
Name of Signatory/Designation		Name of Signatory/Designation





..…………………………………			………………………………………
Address						Address





..…………………………………			…………………………….………...
Date							Date





..…………………………………			……………………………………....
Company Stamp					Company Stamp
